map is applying a function over a list.

Functor is at a more abstract level that is basically for things that can be mapped over, including lists.

the definition of Functor is

class Functor f where
  fmap :: (a -> b) -> f a -> f b

to read: f is a type constructor which constructs a type by accepting a type parameter. in java, it is something like Container<?>, which can contain Int, Object, etc.

So, considering [] as a type constructor which allows us to construct concrete types like [Int], [String], we can have [] `implements` Functor like:

instance Functor [] where
  fmap = map

Suppose we define a Tree like:
data Tree a = EmptyTree | Node a (Tree a) (Tree a) deriving (Show, Read, Eq)

we can `implement` Functor as:
instance Functor Tree where
  fmap f EmptyTree = EmptyTree
  fmap f (Node x left right) = Node (f x) (fmap f left) (fmap f right)

- so fmap is a function that takes a function and lifts that function so that it operates on functors ( or `Mappable`s), e.g.
let inc = (1+)
let inc_on_any_mappable = fmap inc
inc_on_any_mappable [1,2,3]
inc_on_any_mappable (Just 30)
inc_on_any_mappable (Node 20 EmptyTree (Node 30 EmptyTree EmptyTree))

above is same as:
fmap inc (Node 20 EmptyTree (Node 30 EmptyTree EmptyTree))

it looks like map, but it operates at a higher level. map works for list, fmap works for anything that is `mappable`. in haskell, this is not called mappable but `Functor`.


- Laws that functor should obey
 = identity: fmap id = id
 = composibility: fmap (f . g) = fmap f . fmap g

- If you think of functors as things that output values, you can think of mapping over functors as attaching a transformation to the output of the functor that changes the value. 

- if we use fmap over a function, e.g. fmap (*10) (+1)
  it is quite like function composition, but we can think of it as attaching the transformation (*10) to the eventual output of (+1).
  so `fmap (*10) (+1) 2` -> 30

- So, fmap is like you have a structure (a functor, a box containing some concrete value), and then apply function f :: a -> b, which is like attaching a transformmer to all values/elements contained in this structor/functor/box. Then, the end result is still a functor/box.

- When, you have multiple (two or more) such structures/boxes/functors, and you have a function f :: a1 -> a2 -> b. you want to apply f, the transformer to values in all those boxes.
  You have to use applicative functors, such that `pure (+) <*> Just 3 <*> Just 5` -> Just 8, or better written as:
  `(+) <$> (Just 3) <*> (Just 5)`


